Rewrite `Game mode` (#5986)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Game_mode/en.md

# Game mode

osu! has four **game modes** with different mechanics, originally inspired by other rhythm games:

- ![][osu!] [osu!](#-osu!)
- ![][osu!taiko] [osu!taiko](#-osu!taiko)
- ![][osu!catch] [osu!catch](#-osu!catch)
- ![][osu!mania] [osu!mania](#-osu!mania)

> To switch between modes, click the `Mode` button at the bottom of the Song Selection screen, or use key combinations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To switch between modes, click the `Mode` button at the bottom of the Song Selection screen, or use these key combinations:
```

> - `Ctrl`+`1` for osu!
> - `Ctrl`+`2` for osu!taiko
> - `Ctrl`+`3` for osu!catch
> - `Ctrl`+`4` for osu!mania

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Ctrl` + `1` for osu!
- `Ctrl` + `2` for osu!taiko
- `Ctrl` + `3` for osu!catch
- `Ctrl` + `4` for osu!mania
```

> ![Mode selection interface](/wiki/shared/Interface_mode.png "Mode selection interface")

Reviewer: this image could use an update

Author: I guess

## ![][osu!] osu!

*Main page: [osu!](osu!)*

> *osu!* is the default mode, where players are expected to tap hit circles, hold sliders, and revolve spinners to the beat of songs. It is based on the original [iNiS'](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INiS "Wikipedia") rhythm video game *[Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osu!_Tatakae!_Ouendan "Wikipedia")*. osu!'s mascot is [pippi](/wiki/Mascots#-pippi), a pink/black-haired girl.

Reviewer: more cheesiness please

```suggestion
*osu!* is the default mode, where players are expected to tap circles, hold sliders, and spin spinners to the beat of the music. It is based on the original [iNiS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INiS "Wikipedia")' rhythm game *[Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osu!_Tatakae!_Ouendan "Wikipedia")*. osu! has its own mascot called [pippi](/wiki/Mascots#-pippi), a pink/black-haired girl.
```

Author: *squints*

![Gameplay of osu!](/wiki/shared/osu-gameplay.jpg "osu! gameplay")

## ![][osu!taiko] osu!taiko

*Main page: [osu!taiko](osu!taiko)*

> *osu!taiko* simulates the process of playing a real drum, and players make use of a keyboard or drum kit to hit differently-colored circles on a single conveyor. It is based on the *[Taiko no Tatsujin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiko_no_Tatsujin "Wikipedia")* game series produced by [Bandai Namco Entertainment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandai_Namco_Entertainment "Wikipedia"). osu!taiko's mascot is [Mocha](/wiki/Mascots#-mocha), a green-haired girl in a kimono holding drumsticks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*osu!taiko* simulates the process of playing a real drum, where players make use of a keyboard or drum kit to hit differently-coloured circles on a single conveyor. It is based on the *[Taiko no Tatsujin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiko_no_Tatsujin "Wikipedia")* game series produced by [Bandai Namco Entertainment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandai_Namco_Entertainment "Wikipedia"). osu!taiko's mascot is [Mocha](/wiki/Mascots#-mocha), a green-haired girl in a kimono holding drumsticks.
```

![Gameplay of osu!taiko](/wiki/shared/taiko-gameplay.jpg "osu!taiko gameplay")

## ![][osu!catch] osu!catch

*Main page: [osu!catch](osu!catch)*

> In *osu!catch*, fruits of differing varieties fall to the beat from the top of the screen. The player controls a [catcher](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu) with a plate atop their head for catching fruits. This mode is loosely based on a minigame inside of a [Beatmania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beatmania "Wikipedia") simulator, which itself is believed to be based on the *EZ2CATCH* mode from the [EZ2DJ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EZ2DJ "Wikipedia") series. osu!catch's mascot is [Yuzu](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu), a blue-haired boy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In *osu!catch*, fruits of differing varieties fall from the top of the screen, and the player must catch them to the beat. To this end they control a [catcher](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu) with a plate atop their head for catching said fruits. This mode is loosely based on a minigame inside of a [Beatmania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beatmania "Wikipedia") simulator, which itself is believed to be based on the *EZ2CATCH* mode from the [EZ2DJ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EZ2DJ "Wikipedia") series. osu!catch's mascot is [Yuzu](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu), a blue-haired boy.
```

Author: uhh kind of wanted to reduce the amount of `ca(t-)ching`s here, any other suggestion? I'm fine with the rest of the suggestion

> In *osu!catch*, fruits of differing varieties fall from the top of the screen, and the player must catch them to the beat. To this end they control a [catcher](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu) with a plate atop their head for catching said fruits. This mode is loosely based on a minigame inside of a [Beatmania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beatmania "Wikipedia") simulator, which itself is believed to be based on the *EZ2CATCH* mode from the [EZ2DJ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EZ2DJ "Wikipedia") series. osu!catch's mascot is [Yuzu](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu), a blue-haired boy.

Reviewer: > uhh kind of wanted to reduce the amount of `ca(t-)ching`s here, any other suggestion? I'm fine with the rest of the suggestion

better?

```suggestion
In *osu!catch*, fruits of differing varieties fall from the top of the screen, and the player must catch them to the beat. To this end they control a [catcher](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu) with a plate atop their head for catching said fruits. This mode is loosely based on a minigame inside of a [Beatmania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beatmania "Wikipedia") simulator, which itself is believed to be based on the *EZ2CATCH* mode from the [EZ2DJ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EZ2DJ "Wikipedia") series. The mascot for this game mode is [Yuzu](/wiki/Mascots#-yuzu), a blue-haired boy.
```

Author: picked the first suggestion instead

![Gameplay of osu!catch](/wiki/shared/catch-gameplay.jpg "osu!catch gameplay")

## ![][osu!mania] osu!mania

*Main page: [osu!mania](osu!mania)*

> *osu!mania* is a vertical scrolling rhythm game (VSRG) mode designed as a piano simulator. It was chiefly [introduced and implemented](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/100751) by [woc2006](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1105845), and is based on a variety of conveyor-type rhythm games (namely [Dance Dance Revolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dance_Dance_Revolution "Wikipedia") and Beatmania). osu!mania's mascots are twins [Mani and Mari](/wiki/Mascots#-mani-&-mari) with light purple to purple hair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*osu!mania* is a vertical scrolling rhythm game (VSRG) mode designed as a piano simulator. It was chiefly [introduced and implemented](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/100751) by [woc2006](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1105845), and is based on a variety of conveyor-type rhythm games (namely [Dance Dance Revolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dance_Dance_Revolution "Wikipedia") and [Beatmania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beatmania "Wikipedia")). osu!mania's mascots are the twins [Mani and Mari](/wiki/Mascots#-mani-&-mari), both with purple and light purple hair.
```
